.TH "LTTNG-RELAYD" "8" "July 15, 2012" "" ""

.SH "NAME"
lttng-relayd \(em LTTng remote trace collection daemon

.SH "SYNOPSIS"

.PP
.nf
lttng-relayd [OPTIONS]
.fi
.SH "DESCRIPTION"

.PP
The LTTng project aims at providing highly efficient tracing tools for Linux.
It's tracers help tracking down performance issues and debugging problems
involving multiple concurrent processes and threads. Tracing across multiple
systems is also possible.

The relay daemon listens on the network and receives traces streamed by a
remote consumer. This daemon does not require any particular permissions as
long as it can write in the output folder and listen on the ports.

Once a trace has been streamed completely, the trace can be processed by any
tool that can process a local LTTng CTF trace.

By default, the relayd outputs the traces in :
~/lttng-traces/hostname/session-name/domain-name

The prefix (~/lttng-traces) can be configured on the relayd side (see below for
the option), the other folders can be configured when creating the trace on the
sessiond side.
.SH "OPTIONS"

.PP
This program follow the usual GNU command line syntax with long options starting with
two dashes. Below is a summary of the available options.
.PP

.TP
.BR "-h, --help"
Show summary of possible options and commands
.TP
.BR "-v, --verbose"
Increase verbosity

There is three debugging level which will print on stderr. Maximum verbosity is
\fB-vvv\fP.
.TP
.BR "-d, --daemonize"
Start as a daemon
.TP
.BR "-C, --control-port"
Control port URL (tcp://0.0.0.0:5342 is the default)
.TP
.BR "-D, --data-port"
Data port URL (tcp://0.0.0.0:5343 is the default)
.TP
.BR "-o, --output"
Output base directory. Must use an absolute path (~/lttng-traces is the default)
.TP
.BR "-V, --version"
Show version number
.SH "SEE ALSO"

.PP
babeltrace(1), lttng-sessiond(8), lttng-ust(3), lttng(1)
.PP

.SH "LIMITATIONS"

.PP
For now only TCP is supported on both control and data port.
Control will always remain TCP-only since it is low-volume and needs absolutely
to be reliable, but eventually the data connection could support UDP.

For unprivileged user running lttng-relayd, the maximum number of file
descriptors per process is usually 1024. This limits the number of connections
and tracefiles opened. This limit can be configured see ulimit(3).
.PP

.SH "BUGS"

.PP
No show stopper bugs are known yet in this version.

If you encounter any issues or usability problem, please report it on our
mailing list <lttng-dev@lists.lttng.org> to help improve this project.
.SH "CREDITS"

.PP
lttng-relayd is distributed under the GNU General Public License version 2. See the
file COPYING for details.
.PP
A Web site is available at http://lttng.org for more information on the LTTng
project.
.PP
You can also find our git tree at http://git.lttng.org.
.PP
Mailing lists for support and development: <lttng-dev@lists.lttng.org>.
.PP
You can find us on IRC server irc.oftc.net (OFTC) in #lttng.
.PP
.SH "AUTHORS"

.PP
lttng-relay was originally written by Julien Desfossez and
David Goulet. More people have since contributed to it. It is currently
maintained by Julien Desfossez <jdesfossez@efficios.com>.
.PP
