.TH "LTTNG" "1" "July 18th, 2013" "" ""

.SH "NAME"
lttng \(em LTTng 2.x tracer control command line tool

.SH "SYNOPSIS"

.PP
lttng [OPTIONS] <COMMAND>
.SH "DESCRIPTION"

.PP
The LTTng project aims at providing highly efficient tracing tools for Linux.
Its tracers help track down performance issues and debug problems
involving multiple concurrent processes and threads. Tracing across multiple
systems is also possible.

The \fBlttng\fP command line tool from the lttng-tools package is used to control
both kernel and user-space tracing. Every interaction with the tracer should
be done by this tool or by the liblttng-ctl library provided by the lttng-tools
package.

LTTng uses a session daemon (lttng-sessiond(8)), acting as a tracing registry,
which allows you to interact with multiple tracers (kernel and user-space)
inside the same container, a tracing session. Traces can be gathered from the
kernel and/or instrumented applications (lttng-ust(3)). Aggregating and reading
those traces is done using the babeltrace(1) text viewer.

We introduce the notion of \fBtracing domains\fP which is essentially a type of
tracer (kernel or user space for now). In the future, we could see a third
tracer being for instance an hypervisor. For some commands, you'll need to
specify on which domain the command operates (-u or -k). For instance, the
kernel domain must be specified when enabling a kernel event.

In order to trace the kernel, the session daemon needs to be running as root.
LTTng provides the use of a \fBtracing group\fP (default: tracing). Whomever is
in that group can interact with the root session daemon and thus trace the
kernel. Session daemons can co-exist, meaning that you can have a session daemon
running as Alice that can be used to trace her applications along side with a
root daemon or even a Bob daemon. We highly recommend starting the session
daemon at boot time for stable and long term tracing.

Each user-space application instrumented with lttng-ust(3) will automatically
register with the root session daemon and its user session daemon. This allows
each daemon to list the available traceable applications and tracepoints at any
given moment (See the \fBlist\fP command).
.SH "OPTIONS"

.PP
This program follow the usual GNU command line syntax with long options starting with
two dashes. Below is a summary of the available options.
.PP

.TP
.BR "\-h, \-\-help"
Show summary of possible options and commands.
.TP
.BR "\-v, \-\-verbose"
Increase verbosity.
Three levels of verbosity are available which are triggered by putting additional v to
the option (\-vv or \-vvv)
.TP
.BR "\-q, \-\-quiet"
Suppress all messages (even errors).
.TP
.BR "\-g, \-\-group NAME"
Set unix tracing group name. (default: tracing)
.TP
.BR "\-n, \-\-no-sessiond"
Don't automatically spawn a session daemon.
.TP
.BR "\-\-sessiond\-path PATH"
Set session daemon full binary path.
.TP
.BR "\-\-list\-options"
Simple listing of lttng options.
.TP
.BR "\-\-list\-commands"
Simple listing of lttng commands.
.SH "COMMANDS"

.PP
\fBadd-context\fP [OPTIONS]
.RS
Add context to event(s) and/or channel(s).

A context is basically extra information appended to a channel. For instance,
you could ask the tracer to add the PID information for all events in a
channel. You can also add performance monitoring unit counters (perf PMU) using
the perf kernel API).

For example, this command will add the context information 'prio' and two perf
counters (hardware branch misses and cache misses), to all events in the trace
data output:

.nf
# lttng add-context \-k \-t prio \-t perf:branch-misses \\
		\-t perf:cache-misses
.fi

Please take a look at the help (\-h/\-\-help) for a detailed list of available
contexts.

If no channel is given (\-c), the context is added to all channels that were
already enabled. If the session has no channel, a default channel is created.
Otherwise the context will be added only to the given channel (\-c).

If \fB\-s, \-\-session\fP is omitted, the session name is taken from the .lttngrc
file.

.B OPTIONS:

.TP
.BR "\-h, \-\-help"
Show summary of possible options and commands.
.TP
.BR "\-s, \-\-session NAME"
Apply on session name.
.TP
.BR "\-c, \-\-channel NAME"
Apply on channel name.
.TP
.BR "\-k, \-\-kernel"
Apply for the kernel tracer
.TP
.BR "\-u, \-\-userspace"
Apply for the user-space tracer
.TP
.BR "\-t, \-\-type TYPE"
Context type. You can repeat this option on the command line. Please
use "lttng add-context \-h" to list all available types.
.RE
.PP

.PP
\fBcalibrate\fP [OPTIONS]
.RS
Quantify LTTng overhead

The LTTng calibrate command can be used to find out the combined average
overhead of the LTTng tracer and the instrumentation mechanisms used. This
overhead can be calibrated in terms of time or using any of the PMU performance
counter available on the system.

For now, the only calibration implemented is that of the kernel function
instrumentation (kretprobes).

* Calibrate kernel function instrumentation

Let's use an example to show this calibration. We use an i7 processor with 4
general-purpose PMU registers. This information is available by issuing dmesg,
looking for "generic registers".

This sequence of commands will gather a trace executing a kretprobe hooked on
an empty function, gathering PMU counters LLC (Last Level Cache) misses
information (see lttng add-context \-\-help to see the list of available PMU
counters).

.nf
# lttng create calibrate-function
# lttng enable-event calibrate \-\-kernel \\
	\-\-function lttng_calibrate_kretprobe
# lttng add-context \-\-kernel \-t perf:LLC-load-misses \\
	\-t perf:LLC-store-misses \\
	\-t perf:LLC-prefetch-misses
# lttng start
# for a in $(seq 1 10); do \\
        lttng calibrate \-\-kernel \-\-function;
  done
# lttng destroy
# babeltrace $(ls \-1drt ~/lttng-traces/calibrate-function-* \\
	| tail \-n 1)
.fi

The output from babeltrace can be saved to a text file and opened in a
spreadsheet (e.g. oocalc) to focus on the per-PMU counter delta between
consecutive "calibrate_entry" and "calibrate_return" events. Note that these
counters are per-CPU, so scheduling events would need to be present to account
for migration between CPU. Therefore, for calibration purposes, only events
staying on the same CPU must be considered.

The average result, for the i7, on 10 samples:

.nf
                          Average     Std.Dev.
perf_LLC_load_misses:       5.0       0.577
perf_LLC_store_misses:      1.6       0.516
perf_LLC_prefetch_misses:   9.0      14.742
.fi

As we can notice, the load and store misses are relatively stable across runs
(their standard deviation is relatively low) compared to the prefetch misses.
We can conclude from this information that LLC load and store misses can be
accounted for quite precisely, but prefetches within a function seems to behave
too erratically (not much causality link between the code executed and the CPU
prefetch activity) to be accounted for.

.B OPTIONS:

.TP
.BR "\-h, \-\-help"
Show summary of possible options and commands.
.TP
.BR "\-k, \-\-kernel"
Apply for the kernel tracer
.TP
.BR "\-u, \-\-userspace"
Apply for the user-space tracer
.TP
.BR "\-\-function"
Dynamic function entry/return probe (default)
.RE
.PP

.PP
\fBcreate\fP [NAME] [OPTIONS]
.RS
Create tracing session.

A tracing session contains channel(s) which contains event(s). It is domain
agnostic, meaning that channels and events can be enabled for the
user-space tracer and/or the kernel tracer. It acts like a container
aggregating multiple tracing sources.

On creation, a \fB.lttngrc\fP file is created in your $HOME directory
containing the current session name. If NAME is omitted, a session name is
automatically created having this form: 'auto-yyyymmdd-hhmmss'.

If no \fB\-o, \-\-output\fP is specified, the traces will be written in
$HOME/lttng-traces.

The $HOME environment variable can be overridden by defining the environment
variable LTTNG_HOME. This is useful when the user running the commands has
a non-writeable home directory.

The session name MUST NOT contain the character '/'.

.B OPTIONS:

.TP
.BR "\-h, \-\-help"
Show summary of possible options and commands.
.TP
.BR "\-\-list-options"
Simple listing of options
.TP
.BR "\-o, \-\-output PATH"
Specify output path for traces
.TP
.BR "\-\-no-output"
Traces will not be output
.TP
.BR "\-\-snapshot"
Set the session in snapshot mode. Created in no-output mode and uses the
URL, if one is specified, as the default snapshot output.  Every channel will be set
in overwrite mode and with mmap output (splice not supported).

.TP
.BR "\-U, \-\-set-url=URL"
Set URL for the consumer output destination. It is persistent for the
session lifetime. Redo the command to change it. This will set both data
and control URL for network.
.TP
.BR "\-C, \-\-ctrl-url=URL"
Set control path URL. (Must use -D also)
.TP
.BR "\-D, \-\-data-url=URL"
Set data path URL. (Must use -C also)
.PP
Using these options, each API call can be controlled individually. For
instance, \-C does not enable the consumer automatically. You'll need the \-e
option for that.

.B URL FORMAT:

proto://[HOST|IP][:PORT1[:PORT2]][/TRACE_PATH]

Supported protocols are (proto):
.TP
.BR "file://..."
Local filesystem full path.

.TP
.BR "net://..."
This will use the default network transport layer which is TCP for both
control (PORT1) and data port (PORT2). The default ports are
respectively 5342 and 5343. Note that net[6]:// is not yet supported.

.TP
.BR "tcp[6]://..."
Can only be used with -C and -D together

NOTE: IPv6 address MUST be enclosed in brackets '[]' (rfc2732)

.B EXAMPLES:

.nf
# lttng create -U net://192.168.1.42
.fi
Uses TCP and default ports for the given destination.

.nf
# lttng create -U net6://[fe80::f66d:4ff:fe53:d220]
.fi
Uses TCP, default ports and IPv6.

.nf
# lttng create s1 -U net://myhost.com:3229
.fi
Create session s1 and set its consumer to myhost.com on port 3229 for control.
.RE
.PP

.PP
\fBdestroy\fP [NAME] [OPTIONS]
.RS
Teardown tracing session

Free memory on the session daemon and tracer side. It's gone!

If NAME is omitted, the session name is taken from the .lttngrc file.

.B OPTIONS:

.TP
.BR "\-h, \-\-help"
Show summary of possible options and commands.
.TP
.BR "\-a, \-\-all"
Destroy all sessions
.TP
.BR "\-\-list-options"
Simple listing of options
.RE
.PP

.PP
\fBenable-channel\fP NAME[,NAME2,...] (\-k | \-u) [OPTIONS]
.RS
Enable tracing channel

To enable an event, you must enable both the event and the channel that
contains it.

If \fB\-s, \-\-session\fP is omitted, the session name is taken from the .lttngrc
file.

Exactly one of \-k or -u must be specified.

It is important to note that if a certain type of buffers is used, the session
will be set with that type and all other subsequent channel needs to have the
same type.

Note that once the session has been started and enabled on the tracer side,
it's not possible anymore to enable a new channel for that session.

.B OPTIONS:

.TP
.BR "\-h, \-\-help"
Show this help
.TP
.BR "\-\-list-options"
Simple listing of options
.TP
.BR "\-s, \-\-session NAME"
Apply on session name
.TP
.BR "\-k, \-\-kernel"
Apply to the kernel tracer
.TP
.BR "\-u, \-\-userspace"
Apply to the user-space tracer
.TP
.BR "\-\-discard"
Discard event when subbuffers are full (default)
.TP
.BR "\-\-overwrite"
Flight recorder mode : overwrites events when subbuffers are full
.TP
.BR "\-\-subbuf-size SIZE"
Subbuffer size in bytes {+k,+M,+G}.
(default UST uid: 131072, UST pid: 4096, kernel: 262144, metadata: 4096)
Rounded up to the next power of 2.

The minimum subbuffer size, for each tracer, is the max value between
the default above and the system page size. You can issue this command
to get the current page size on your system: \fB$ getconf PAGE_SIZE\fP
.TP
.BR "\-\-num-subbuf NUM"
Number of subbuffers. (default UST uid: 4, UST pid: 4, kernel: 4,
metadata: 2) Rounded up to the next power of 2.
.TP
.BR "\-\-switch-timer USEC"
Switch subbuffer timer interval in µsec.
(default UST uid: 0, UST pid: 0, kernel: 0, metadata: 0)
.TP
.BR "\-\-read-timer USEC"
Read timer interval in µsec.
(default UST uid: 0, UST pid: 0, kernel: 200000, metadata: 0)
.TP
.BR "\-\-output TYPE"
Channel output type. Possible values: mmap, splice
(default UST uid: mmap, UST pid: mmap, kernel: splice, metadata: mmap)
.TP
.BR "\-\-buffers-uid"
Use per UID buffer (\-u only). Buffers are shared between applications
that have the same UID.
.TP
.BR "\-\-buffers-pid"
Use per PID buffer (\-u only). Each application has its own buffers.
.TP
.BR "\-\-buffers-global"
Use shared buffer for the whole system (\-k only)
.TP
.BR "\-C, \-\-tracefile-size SIZE"
Maximum size of each tracefile within a stream (in bytes).
0 means unlimited. (default: 0)
.TP
.BR "\-W, \-\-tracefile-count COUNT"
Used in conjunction with \-C option, this will limit the number of files
created to the specified count. 0 means unlimited. (default: 0)

.B EXAMPLES:

.nf
$ lttng enable-channel -k -C 4096 -W 32 chan1
.fi
For each stream, the maximum size of each trace file will be 4096 bytes and
there will be a maximum of 32 different files. The file count is appended after
the stream number as seen in the following example. The last trace file is
smaller than 4096 since it was not completely filled.

.nf
        ~/lttng-traces/[...]/chan1_0_0 (4096)
        ~/lttng-traces/[...]/chan1_0_1 (4096)
        ~/lttng-traces/[...]/chan1_0_2 (3245)
        ~/lttng-traces/[...]/chan1_1_0 (4096)
        ...
.fi

.nf
$ lttng enable-channel -k -C 4096
.fi
This will create trace files of 4096 bytes and will create new ones as long as
there is data available.
.RE
.PP

.PP
\fBenable-event\fP NAME[,NAME2,...] [-k|-u] [OPTIONS]
.RS
Enable tracing event

A tracing event is always assigned to a channel. If \fB\-c, \-\-channel\fP is
omitted, a default channel named '\fBchannel0\fP' is created and the event is
added to it. If \fB\-c, \-\-channel\fP is omitted, but a non-default
channel already exists within the session, an error is returned. For the
user-space tracer, using \fB\-a, \-\-all\fP is the same as using the
wildcard "*".

If \fB\-s, \-\-session\fP is omitted, the session name is taken from the .lttngrc
file.

.B OPTIONS:

.TP
.BR "\-h, \-\-help"
Show summary of possible options and commands.
.TP
.BR "\-\-list-options"
Simple listing of options
.TP
.BR "\-s, \-\-session NAME"
Apply on session name
.TP
.BR "\-c, \-\-channel NAME"
Apply on channel name
.TP
.BR "\-a, \-\-all"
Enable all tracepoints and syscalls. This actually enables a single
wildcard event "*".
.TP
.BR "\-k, \-\-kernel"
Apply for the kernel tracer
.TP
.BR "\-u, \-\-userspace"
Apply for the user-space tracer
.TP
.BR "\-\-tracepoint"
Tracepoint event (default). Userspace tracer supports wildcards at the end
of string. Don't forget to quote to deal with bash expansion.
e.g.:
.nf
        "*"
        "app_component:na*"
.fi
.TP
.BR "\-\-loglevel NAME"
Tracepoint loglevel range from 0 to loglevel. Listed in the help (\-h).
.TP
.BR "\-\-loglevel-only NAME"
Tracepoint loglevel (only this loglevel).
The loglevel or loglevel-only options should be combined with a
tracepoint name or tracepoint wildcard.
.TP
.BR "\-\-probe (addr | symbol | symbol+offset)"
Dynamic probe. Addr and offset can be octal (0NNN...), decimal (NNN...)
or hexadecimal (0xNNN...)
.TP
.BR "\-\-function (addr | symbol | symbol+offset)"
Dynamic function entry/return probe. Addr and offset can be octal
(0NNN...), decimal (NNN...) or hexadecimal (0xNNN...)
.TP
.BR "\-\-syscall"
System call event. Enabling syscalls tracing (kernel tracer), you will
not be able to disable them with disable-event. This is a known
limitation. You can disable the entire channel to do the trick.
.TP
.BR "\-\-filter 'expression'"
Set a filter on a newly enabled event. Filter expression on event
fields and context. The event will be recorded if the filter's
expression evaluates to TRUE. Only specify on first activation of a
given event within a session.
Specifying a filter is only allowed when enabling events within a session before
tracing is started. If the filter fails to link with the event
within the traced domain, the event will be discarded.
Filtering is currently only implemented for the user-space tracer.

Expression examples:

.nf
  'intfield > 500 && intfield < 503'
  '(strfield == "test" || intfield != 10) && intfield > 33'
  'doublefield > 1.1 && intfield < 5.3'
.fi

Wildcards are allowed at the end of strings:
  'seqfield1 == "te*"'
In string literals, the escape character is a '\\'. Use '\\*' for
the '*' character, and '\\\\' for the '\\' character sequence. Wildcard
matches any sequence of characters, including an empty sub-string
(matches 0 or more characters).

Context information can be used for filtering. The examples below shows
usage of context filtering on the process name (using a wildcard), process ID
range, and unique thread ID. The process and thread IDs of
running applications can be found under columns "PID" and "LWP" of the
"ps -eLf" command.

.nf
  '$ctx.procname == "demo*"'
  '$ctx.vpid >= 4433 && $ctx.vpid < 4455'
  '$ctx.vtid == 1234'
.fi

.RE
.PP

.PP
\fBdisable-channel\fP NAME[,NAME2,...] (\-k | \-u) [OPTIONS]
.RS
Disable tracing channel

Disabling a channel disables the tracing of all of the channel's events. A channel
can be reenabled by calling \fBlttng enable-channel NAME\fP again.

If \fB\-s, \-\-session\fP is omitted, the session name is taken from the .lttngrc
file.

.B OPTIONS:

.TP
.BR "\-h, \-\-help"
Show summary of possible options and commands.
.TP
.BR "\-\-list-options"
Simple listing of options
.TP
.BR "\-s, \-\-session NAME"
Apply on session name
.TP
.BR "\-k, \-\-kernel"
Apply for the kernel tracer
.TP
.BR "\-u, \-\-userspace"
Apply for the user-space tracer
.RE
.PP

.PP
\fBdisable-event\fP NAME[,NAME2,...] (\-k | \-u) [OPTIONS]
.RS
Disable tracing event

The event, once disabled, can be re-enabled by calling \fBlttng enable-event
NAME\fP again.

If \fB\-s, \-\-session\fP is omitted, the session name is taken from the .lttngrc
file.

If \fB\-c, \-\-channel\fP is omitted, the default channel name is used.
If \fB\-c, \-\-channel\fP is omitted, but a non-default channel already
exists within the session, an error is returned.

.B OPTIONS:

.TP
.BR "\-h, \-\-help"
Show summary of possible options and commands.
.TP
.BR "\-\-list-options"
Simple listing of options
.TP
.BR "\-s, \-\-session NAME"
Apply on session name
.TP
.BR "\-c, \-\-channel NAME"
Apply on channel name
.TP
.BR "\-a, \-\-all-events"
Disable all events. This does NOT disable "*" but rather every known
events of the session.
.TP
.BR "\-k, \-\-kernel"
Apply for the kernel tracer
.TP
.BR "\-u, \-\-userspace"
Apply for the user-space tracer
.RE
.PP

.PP
\fBlist\fP [OPTIONS] [SESSION [SESSION OPTIONS]]
.RS
List tracing session information.

With no arguments, it will list available tracing session(s).

With the session name, it will display the details of the session including
the trace file path, the associated channels and their state (activated
and deactivated), the activated events and more.

With \-k alone, it will list all available kernel events (except the system
calls events).
With \-u alone, it will list all available user-space events from registered
applications. Here is an example of 'lttng list \-u':

.nf
PID: 7448 - Name: /tmp/lttng-ust/tests/hello/.libs/lt-hello
      ust_tests_hello:tptest_sighandler (type: tracepoint)
      ust_tests_hello:tptest (type: tracepoint)
.fi

You can now enable any event listed by using the name :
\fBust_tests_hello:tptest\fP.

.B OPTIONS:

.TP
.BR "\-h, \-\-help"
Show summary of possible options and commands.
.TP
.BR "\-\-list-options"
Simple listing of options
.TP
.BR "\-k, \-\-kernel"
Select kernel domain
.TP
.BR "\-u, \-\-userspace"
Select user-space domain.

.PP
.B SESSION OPTIONS:

.TP
.BR "\-c, \-\-channel NAME"
List details of a channel
.TP
.BR "\-d, \-\-domain"
List available domain(s)
.RE
.PP

.PP
\fBset-session\fP NAME [OPTIONS]
.RS
Set current session name

Will change the session name in the .lttngrc file.

.B OPTIONS:

.TP
.BR "\-h, \-\-help"
Show summary of possible options and commands.
.TP
.BR "\-\-list-options"
Simple listing of options
.RE
.PP

.PP
\fBsnapshot\fP [OPTIONS] ACTION
.RS
Snapshot command for LTTng session.

.B OPTIONS:

.TP
.BR "\-h, \-\-help"
Show summary of possible options and commands.
.TP
.BR "\-\-list-options"
Simple listing of options

.PP
.B ACTION:

.TP
\fBadd-output\fP [-m <SIZE>] [-s <NAME>] [-n <NAME>] <URL> | -C <URL> -D <URL>

Setup and add an snapshot output for a session. Output are the destination
where the snapshot will be sent. Only one output is permitted. To change it,
you'll need to delete it and add back the new one.

.TP
\fBdel-output\fP ID | NAME [-s <NAME>]

Delete an output for a session using the ID. You can either specify the
output's ID that can be found with list-output or the name.

.TP
\fBlist-output\fP [-s <NAME>]

List the output of a session. Attributes of the output are printed.

.TP
\fBrecord\fP [-m <SIZE>] [-s <NAME>] [-n <NAME>] [<URL> | -C <URL> -D <URL>]

Snapshot a session's buffer(s) for all domains. If an URL is specified, it is
used instead of a previously added output. Specifying only a name or/and a max
size will override the current output values. For instance, you can record a
snapshot with a custom maximum size or with a different name.

.nf
$ lttng snapshot add-output -n mysnapshot file:///data/snapshot
[...]
$ lttng snapshot record -n new_name_snapshot
.fi

The above will create a snapshot in /data/snapshot/new_name_snapshot* directory
rather then in mysnapshot*/

.PP
.B DETAILED ACTION OPTIONS

.TP
.BR "\-s, \-\-session NAME"
Apply to session name.
.TP
.BR "\-n, \-\-name NAME"
Name of the snapshot's output.
.TP
.BR "\-m, \-\-max-size SIZE"
Maximum size in bytes of the snapshot. The maxium size does not include the
metadata file. Human readable format is accepted: {+k,+M,+G}. For instance,
\-\-max-size 5M
.TP
.BR "\-C, \-\-ctrl-url URL"
Set control path URL. (Must use -D also)
.TP
.BR "\-D, \-\-data-url URL"
Set data path URL. (Must use -C also)
.RE
.PP

.PP
\fBstart\fP [NAME] [OPTIONS]
.RS
Start tracing

It will start tracing for all tracers for a specific tracing session.
If NAME is omitted, the session name is taken from the .lttngrc file.

.B OPTIONS:

.TP
.BR "\-h, \-\-help"
Show summary of possible options and commands.
.TP
.BR "\-\-list-options"
Simple listing of options
.RE
.PP

.PP
\fBstop\fP [NAME] [OPTIONS]
.RS
Stop tracing

It will stop tracing for all tracers for a specific tracing session. Before
returning, the command checks for data availability meaning that it will wait
until the trace is readable for the session. Use \-\-no-wait to avoid this
behavior.

If NAME is omitted, the session name is taken from the .lttngrc file.

.B OPTIONS:

.TP
.BR "\-h, \-\-help"
Show summary of possible options and commands.
.TP
.BR "\-\-list-options"
Simple listing of options
.TP
.BR "\-\-no-wait"
Don't wait for data availability.
.RE
.PP

.PP
\fBversion\fP
.RS
Show version information

.B OPTIONS:

.TP
.BR "\-h, \-\-help"
Show summary of possible options and commands.
.TP
.BR "\-\-list-options"
Simple listing of options
.RE
.PP

.PP
\fBview\fP [SESSION_NAME] [OPTIONS]
.RS
View traces of a tracing session.  By default, the babeltrace viewer
will be used for text viewing.  If SESSION_NAME is omitted, the session
name is taken from the .lttngrc file.

.B OPTIONS:

.TP
.BR "\-h, \-\-help"
Show this help
.TP
.BR "\-\-list-options"
Simple listing of options
.TP
.BR "\-t, \-\-trace-path PATH"
Trace directory path for the viewer
.TP
.BR "\-e, \-\-viewer CMD"
Specify viewer and/or options to use This will completely override the
default viewers so please make sure to specify the full command. The
trace directory path of the session will be appended at the end to the
arguments
.RE
.PP

.SH "EXIT VALUES"
.PP
On success 0 is returned and a positive value on error. Value of 1 means a command
error, 2 an undefined command, 3 a fatal error and 4 a command warning meaning that
something went wrong during the command.

Any other value above 10, please refer to
.BR "<lttng/lttng-error.h>"
for a detailed list or use lttng_strerror() to get a human readable string of
the error code.
.PP

.SH "ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES"

.PP
Note that all command line options override environment variables.
.PP

.PP
.IP "LTTNG_SESSIOND_PATH"
Allows one to specify the full session daemon binary path to lttng command line
tool. You can also use \-\-sessiond-path option having the same effect.
.PP

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR babeltrace(1),
.BR lttng-ust(3),
.BR lttng-sessiond(8),
.BR lttng-relayd(8),
.BR lttng-health-check(3)

.SH "BUGS"

.PP
If you encounter any issues or usability problem, please report it on our
mailing list <lttng-dev@lists.lttng.org> to help improve this project or
at https://bugs.lttng.org which is a bugtracker.
.PP

.SH "CREDITS"

.PP
lttng is distributed under the GNU General Public License version 2. See the file
COPYING for details.
.PP
A Web site is available at http://lttng.org for more information on the LTTng
project.
.PP
You can also find our git tree at http://git.lttng.org.
.PP
Mailing lists for support and development: <lttng-dev@lists.lttng.org>.
.PP
You can find us on IRC server irc.oftc.net (OFTC) in #lttng.
.PP
.SH "THANKS"

.PP
Thanks to Yannick Brosseau without whom this project would never have been so
lean and mean! Also thanks to the Ericsson teams working on tracing which
helped us greatly with detailed bug reports and unusual test cases.

Thanks to our beloved packager Alexandre Montplaisir-Goncalves (Ubuntu and PPA
maintainer) and Jon Bernard for our Debian packages.

Special thanks to Michel Dagenais and the DORSAL laboratory at Polytechnique de
Montreal for the LTTng journey.
.PP
.SH "AUTHORS"

.PP
lttng-tools was originally written by Mathieu Desnoyers, Julien Desfossez and
David Goulet. More people have since contributed to it. It is currently
maintained by David Goulet <dgoulet@efficios.com>.
.PP
