.TH "LTTNG-CRASH" "1" "March 26th, 2015" "" ""

.SH "NAME"
lttng-crash \- LTTng Crash Trace Viewer

.SH "SYNOPSIS"

.PP
lttng-crash [OPTIONS] FILE
.SH "DESCRIPTION"

.PP
The LTTng project aims at providing highly efficient tracing tools for Linux.
Its tracers help track down performance issues and debug problems involving
multiple concurrent processes and threads. Tracing across multiple systems
is also possible.

The \fBlttng-crash\fP command line tool, part of the lttng-tools package, is used to
view or recover trace buffers in the event of a crash.
.SH "OPTIONS"

.PP
This program follows the usual GNU command line syntax with long options starting with
two dashes. Below is a summary of the available options.
.PP

.TP
.BR "\-h, \-\-help"
Show summary of possible options and commands.
.TP
.BR "\-V, \-\-version"
Show version.
.TP
.BR "\-v, \-\-verbose"
Increase verbosity.
Three levels of verbosity are available which are triggered by putting additional v to
the option (\-vv or \-vvv)
.TP
.BR "\-e, \-\-viewer NAME"
Specify viewer and/or options to use. This will completely override the default
viewers therefore make sure to specify the full command. The trace directory paths are
appended at the end to the arguments. (defaults: babeltrace)
.TP
.BR "\-x, \-\-extract PATH"
Extract trace(s) to the specified path. Don't display the trace.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR babeltrace(1),
.BR lttng(1),
.BR lttng-ust(3),
.BR lttng-sessiond(8),
.BR lttng-relayd(8),

.SH "BUGS"

.PP
If you encounter any issues or usability problem, please report it on our
mailing list <lttng-dev@lists.lttng.org> to help improve this project or
at https://bugs.lttng.org which is a bug tracker.
.PP

.SH "CREDITS"

.PP
lttng is distributed under the GNU General Public License version 2. See the file
COPYING for details.
.PP
A Web site is available at http://lttng.org for more information on the LTTng
project.
.PP
You can also find our git tree at http://git.lttng.org.
.PP
Mailing lists for support and development: <lttng-dev@lists.lttng.org>.
.PP
You can find us on IRC server irc.oftc.net (OFTC) in #lttng.
.PP
.SH "AUTHORS"

.PP
lttng-crash was originally written by Mathieu Desnoyers. It is currently
maintained by Jérémie Galarneau <jeremie.galarneau@efficios.com>.
.PP
